CONTACT INFO:

Jordan Brown
jbrown94@u.rochester.edu
CSC 172 FALL 2015
Assignment: PROJECT 1

NOTE:
When I ran my program in Eclipse it worked as predicted. However, when I run and compile it via the command prompt
(windows), my program did not behave properly. 

LAB Synopsis:

This project was on implementing a Mastermind game, where the user is the codemaker and computer is the codebreaker.

For my algorithm, I tried following a variation of Donald's Knuth 5 Guess Algorithm. Knuth recommends that the first
guess of the codebreaker should be '1122'. My possible positions were, 2, 3, and 4, so the first guesses of each position
corresponded to Knuth's recommendations. 

e.g. If R represents the color Red and B represents the color blue, my computer's first guess would always be as follows:

2-positions: RR
3-positions: RRB
4-postions: RRBB

After the computer makes the first guess, the user gives feedback on how many black or white pegs the computer earned.
If the computer gets the same number of black pegs as the user's chosen positions, the algorithm ends.

Otherwise, I calculate the elimination decisions as follows: 

The computer has a list of all the possible combinations that it refers to when making elimination decisions.

If computer scores both a 0 in white and black pegs, then regardless of the number of total positions, the computer
eliminates all combinations that contain any letters of its previous guess. This is because none of the colors contained
in the guess are contained in the user's secret combination.
 

For 2-Positions: 

If computer score at least 1 white or black peg, then the computer eliminates all combinations that don't contain at least one letter in guess.
This is because the user's combination contains at least one letter in the guess. 

If computer scores 2 white pegs, then the computer eliminates all combinations that don't contain all the letters in guess.
This is because we know that the user's combination must be a rearrangement of the current two colors that the computer guess. 

And the logic follows for the other positions...

For 3-Positions: 

If computer scores exactly 3 (white pegs, black and white or white and black combined, eliminate all combinations that 
do not contain all of the letters in guess.

If computer scores exactly 2 (white pegs, black pegs, or black an white pegs combined), eliminate all combinations that
 do not contain at least two letters in guess
 
If computer scores exactly 1, either white or black pegs, eliminate all combinations that don't contain any of the guess letters

For 4-Positions:

If computer scores exactly 4 white pegs, eliminate all combinations that do not contain all of the letters in guess
If computer scores exactly 3 (black, white, or white and black, or black and white combined), eliminate all combinations that do not contain at least 3 of the letters in guess
If computer scores exactly 2 (black, white, or black and white combined), eliminate all combinations that do not contain at least two letters in guess
If computer scores exactly 1 (white or black pegs), eliminate all combinations that do not contain at least 1 letter in guess

As the computer continues to guess, the combinations lists gets smaller and the computer gets closer to the correct guess in a reasonable amount of guesses


ConsuleGUI class provides the prompts and input interactions between the user, MasterMindAI class creates and provides
methods for an artificial intelligence to make decisions about eliminating unneeded possibilities and making the best
moves to win the game, and MastermindGame class contains helper methods and a main method to run a game of Mastermind.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS ON COMPILING AND RUNNING CODE:

1. Move project file to Desktop
2. Open Command Prompt window
3. Enter cd <Desktop> 
4. Enter cd <Lab file name> 
5. Enter cd src
5. Enter javac *.java 
6. Enter java <ClassName> 

Do not include angle brackets

EXAMPLE INSTRUCTIONS FOR EACH PART:

1. Move zip project file to Desktop
2. Extract all files from zip project file
3. Open Command Prompt window
4. Enter cd Desktop 
5. Enter cd Project01
6. Enter cd src
7. Enter javac *.java
8. Enter java MastermindGame
	... <output> ...